Commercial Use of The Norwegian Wordnet (NWN)

NWN may be used in commercial applications in accordance with the
following license agreement. An attorney representing the commercial
interest should review this license with respect to the intended use.

NWN License

This software and database is being provided to you, the LICENSEE, by
The Norwegian Language Bank under the following license. By obtaining,
using and/or copying this software and database, you agree that you
have read, understood, and will comply with these terms and
conditions.

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and
database and its documentation for any purpose and without fee or
royalty is hereby granted, provided that you agree to comply with the
following copyright notice and statements, including the disclaimer,
and that the same appear on ALL copies of the software, database and
documentation, including modifications that you make for internal use
or for distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE AND DATABASE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE NORWEGIAN
LANGUAGE BANK MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, UNIVERSITY OF
COPENHAGEN AND SOCIETY FOR DANISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE MAKE NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE, DATABASE
OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS,
COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

The name of The Norwegian Language Bank may not be used in advertising
or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software and/or
database. Title to copyright in this software, database and any
associated documentation shall at all times remain with The Norwegian
Language Bank, The University of Copenhagen and The Society for Danish
Language and Literature and LICENSEE agrees to preserve same.

Copyright 2011-12 by The Norwegian Language Bank, The University of
Copenhagen and The Society for Danish Language and Literature.
